Folks, let's get up and running
with testing our mutations.
It's gonna work very similar to how we test queries,
except for we're gonna introduce
faking clicks, faking typing into inputs,
all that kind of stuff that you need to test
before you actually submit a mutation.
So I went ahead and imported mount, wait, toJson,
our MockProvider, as well as the reset, or requestReset,
and the Request_Reset_Mutation from our component.
I actually recorded this video once before this
and I totally was so stuck for 20 minutes until I,
I forgot that I did not export the
this mutation from this file, and I was getting a,
I was getting a, just a mutation error that says
"no more mocked request."
So, let's head into requestReset.JS.
And, for some reason I called it sign-in,
probably because I duped it from the other one.
We'll call that RequestReset,
and then we'll also name export this.
Export the reset, Request_Reset_Mutation.
Then what we'll do, is we're gonna make some mocks.
So, say, const mocks is equal to an array.
And I have a object here.
Inside of that, you have the request,
which is going to be a query of Request_Reset_Mutation
and it's gonna be called, with the variables,
I believe, email is set to wesbos@gmail.com.
You can set that to your own, if you'd like.
That is the actual mutation that it is going to be called,
and then we also need to provide it the information
that gets sent back from that mutation.
So the result, and I've previously also called this
response and wasted a whole bunch of time.
So it's result, the data is going to be requestReset
and back from that we get a message, which is success.
We don't actually use that anywhere on the thing,
but it does send back a message
and a typename of message.
Looks good.
Let's go ahead and describe
the RequestReset component.
First what we want to do is just check that it renders
and we can match the snapshot, so.
We'll say it renders and matches snapshot.
Make it async.
And we'll make a wrapper, or we will mount
MockedProvider.
Inside of that we want our reset
RequestReset component, and we don't need
to pass at any mocks here, because we're not actually
gonna be submitting it.
We just wanna make sure that the actual form itself
gets rendered to the page properly.
So what we'll do here is
let's just console.log the wrapper.debug,
and you see we're getting the form here,
a field set, a h2, no errors, label.
Everything looks good.
Let's pop a little debug on this,
or a data-test on this, so we can grab it.
So we'll go up to our form in the actual component itself,
and add data-test equals form.
Then we'll grab it here.
Const form equals wrapper.find,
a form with a data-test of form.
And let's console.log the form.
Looks good and we can now expect toJson
the form to match the snapshot.
I previously also forgot
to put the toJson on there, and I got a line
that was 223,000 long and it froze my entire editor.
So make sure you put that toJson on there.
That's gonna convert it to the actual html look.
And that should write a snapshot for us.
Let's check it out.
RequestReset.snap.
Here we got our form, we got our h2,
no errors, our email, and a submit button.
Looks good.
So that's our first test.
Next test we wanna do is actually to test the mutation.
So it calls the mutation.
We'll go ahead and mount it again,
so just take this little line here
except that we are going to pass the mocks
along for the ride.
Then we actually need to type into that box.
Now, if we take a look at our RequestReset,
you'll see that we use state to pass along actual
data in our variables.
Where is that mutation? Right here.
Variables is set to state.
So what we could do is you could reach right
into the component state and set the email,
however, it's always best to keep your tests as close
to how the actual user would interface with your components.
So instead of modifying state directly,
what we're going to do is we're going to just fake
type into this input and that's also, in turn,
going to test our onChange handler,
that it works properly, because if that works properly
and we submit the button, then it should send along
the variables for the ride.
So that's exactly what we'll do here.
We'll say simulate typing an email.
So we'll find the input wrapper.find.
We'll look for that input.
And then we'll call the .simulate method,
which is what enzyme provides to us,
will simulate a change event.
And then when you simulate an event,
you also have to pass along everything
that comes along with the event.
So if we take a look at our saveToState,
our event needs a target that has a name and a value in it.
So we're gonna pass that exact event on,
so we're gonna say the target
has a name of email
and a value of wesbos@gmail.com.
That looks good.
Wrapper find input simulate a change,
here's the event that you should pass along,
that should then, in turn, update the state of the input.
Then we'll go ahead and submit it.
Submit the form.
So, wrapper.find, we're gonna find the form,
and we're gonna simulate a submit event.
Then we're going to await wait,
to make sure everything clears.
We're going to wrapper.update,
then we're going to expect the wrapper.find,
we're gonna find the paragraph tag in there,
and we're gonna grab the text out of it.
We're going to expect it to contain
and let's just put something nonsense in there
so we can actually see what it does contain.
Go ahead and run it.
Couple errors here.
Expected the string, success,
check your email for reset link.
Otherwise it found what we typed, so we can just go ahead
and paste that sucker in there.
You could also just snapshot that paragraph tag directly.
And we got one more missing field,
resetRequest end, requestReset message.
Let's see what we're doing here.
Oh, it's requestReset, not requestRest.
There we go. That passed everything.
The reason why that didn't fail,
is because we actually don't check
for any of this information coming back.
We just checked that the form was submitted
and there were no errors.
That's why it still worked
but it threw a little warning there.
So we updated that.
So that is testing the submission of our reset request.
Let's take a look at a couple other mutations,
so we can find some other.
And I close this all down.
Let's look at our create_item.js.
This is a component where you pass it,
all of the information about your item,
and then it comes back with the ID of the item.
I got a little bit more going on here,
so let's go ahead and test that out.
Gonna go into our test folder,
make a new test called createitem.testsuchas.
And let's just jump into the requestReset.test
and copy all the imports, paste 'em into there.
So we have mount, we have wait, we have tojson.
We also need to import that router from next/router.
We have our MockedProvider.
We're also going to grab the CreateItem
and the Create_Item_Mutation,
from CreateItem.
Let's triple check we exported both
the component as well as the mutation.
We did. Good.
We also want to import a fakeItem
from our testUtils,
and I think we are in good shape.
Now's one interesting thing about this CreateItem,
and it's that when you handle a file upload,
it's going to use the fetch protocol
to actually ping an external api.
So what we need to do is, first of all,
we don't have fetch on the server.
And second of all, we don't actually want to hit this
api endpoint, we just want to mock it.
So that's what we're going to do right here.
We're going to mock the global fetch api.
And since this is not,
fetch is not like an imported component,
like if I were to import fetch from fetch,
then I could just import it and go ahead and mock it.
But because fetch is a global browser api,
we need to mimic it in the global scope of our test.
And that's exactly what we'll do here
with global.fetch is equal to, and we're going to mock it,
so jest.fn and we're just going
to mock the ResolvedValue to be an object.
And in that object, it's going to have json,
which is just a function that will immediately return
an object that has a secure_url,
which is we need some sort of dogImage,
so let's make a variable up here.
DogImage is equal to dog http,
dog.com/dog.jpg.
So the secure_url is going to be the dogImage,
and the eager is going to be an array
with an object in it, secure_url is the dogImage.
And if you're asking why is this?
Well, just look at your createItem.
And we'll say here, we are mocking fetch,
which will return a json method.
Then we call json, which will give us a file,
inside of that file, we have both the secure_url
and an array of eager, which we pull the first one,
and then this here.
So we are mocking this data,
that comes back from it,
that's exactly what we got right here.
That is good, then we'll go ahead
and write a describe for our CreateItem.
And first thing we'll say it renders and matches snapshot.
And we'll go ahead and mount it.
And we'll go into our createItem,
and grab that form.
Let's put a data-test on it.
And then grab it in here,
const form is equal to wrapper.find.
Data-test is equal to form,
and we'll expect the toJson
of that form to match our snapshot.
Go ahead and run, we'll open up our CreateItem.snap
and we'll see if we got our form here.
Good.
Actually, we don't want the double form that we have here.
So we can change that to a regular form tag,
then go ahead and update that snapshot.
Go, see our field set, we see our input.
Everything is looking good.
Another way we can test if that's all working properly
is if we were just to say title and put a smiley face on it,
then our snapshot will immediately fail
because it found that extra smiley.
Remove it, all of our tests pass. Good.
So that means it's rendering and not blowing up on us.
Now let's test the file uploading,
so it uploads a file when changed.
Go ahead and grab this wrapper here.
Then we're gonna find that file input,
so const input is equal to wrapper.find,
input type is equal to file.
And then we will simulate somebody uploading a file.
So input.simulate change,
and let's see, what did we--
what did that upload file, e.target.files,
so we, it should have a target with an array of files.
Target, files, an array,
and we'll just call it fakedog.jpg.
We'll await for that to finish. Await, wait.
Now, in order to test if this worked properly,
well, first we need to mark this as async.
The way that we test to make sure that this works properly
is we're gonna peer into the instance of this component
and check that the state matches what we want.
So the way that you can get an instance of a component,
is we can say const component
is equal to wrapper.find.
We're gonna look for the CreateItem component
and then we're gonna just grab the instance off of that.
And then if we were to console.log this component,
you see that this is our CreateItem component,
there's our props, there's our context, our refs,
and then here is the actual state of this,
and we're gonna be checking for the specific image
that's inside of it.
So, we'll go here.
We'll say expect the component.state.image.toEqual
the dog image, which is
this one right here.
Why?
Because by changing the file to any file name,
we're simulating the fetch from running,
and then it's going off and running.
So we expect that.
Looks like it passes.
We'll expect the largeImage to also equal the dog image,
and we could also expect that the global.fetch
toHaveBeenCalled, and that looks like that works.
Let's get this console.log out of here
because now it tells us that it was called.
We can also say expect(global.fetch) toHaveBeenCalledWith,
I don't know, avc.
We'll see what it was actually called with.
It was called with
the body, name fakedog, name upload_preset.
So you could also put that in there,
but I'm pretty happy with this.
One last thing we want to do is
we've now sort of mutated the global state of this fetch
by, we've globally set it as a mock,
and we've resolved the value,
and if there were other tasks that needed this global fetch
in order to work, then it would also be doing this.
So we can sort of,
we can reset it or set it back to what it was,
and let's just jump into the jest docs real quick.
And here you go.
You got mockClear resets information stored
in the Mock.call and instances and we have
MockReset, removes any mockReturn values implementation.
So say global.fetch.mockReset.
And looks like all of our tests are passing. Good.
Let's keep going with this one.
There's a whole bunch of tests in here.
We're going to say it handles state updating.
So we're going to check that,
when people type into the boxes, that it updates to state.
So async, const wrapper;
actually let's just take this wrapper from up here.
So wrapper.find, find the title.
Let's just check in our CreateItem.
We have input, type of file.
Input, here we go. We have an ID on all of them. Good.
Wrapper.find, #title.simulate change.
The target,
of value is testing,
and the name is title.
And we'll just duplicate that again for price.
We're going to trigger a change where the value
is going to be 50 thousand, as a number;
and the name is price.
Also, the type is a number.
I'll also do that for the description.
This is a really nice item.
The name, description, and there is no type
that needs to be passed along here.
Now, we need to just check that the state of this component
is equal to the things that we just typed in.
So we'll say expect
the wrapper.find
CreateItem.instance.state
to match object.
And we want the title
to be Testing,
and the price to be 50 thousand,
and a description to be this is a really nice item.
And of course, you could put these in a variables,
so that you can just reference it
directly off of one single object.
Here, I'm typing it twice.
Let's see if I typed it correctly.
Looks like it's working.
I am getting a console.log here,
I think I left something in my CreateItem.
Console, there we go. Uploading file.
And, the actual file itself.
Beautiful!
Let's keep going with our tests.
This is the next one.
It creates an item when the form is submitted. Right?
This is the actual mutation
that we're gonna be working with.
Make sure you mark that as async.
And we're gonna make an item, which is a fake item.
And we're gonna do the mocks right inside of here.
So const mocks is equal to an array.
The first one is going to be request
and the query is a Create_Item_Mutation
and the variables
is going to be title, item.title
description.
The image is just going to be a blank string,
and the large image is also going to be a blank string,
because we've already tested that in another one
and then the price is an item.price.
Then, the result from that
is going to be a,
is going to pass back some data
in that we have our Create_Item_Mutation
And then we'll just
pass back all of the fakeItem props
as well as a typeName of Item.
So, when someone calls Create_Item_Mutation
with the following variables,
the result will be a Create_Item_Mutation
with all of the same properties,
as well as a typeName, just because we have to manually
add those ourselves, so, woo, okay.
So that is our mocks.
Then we'll go ahead and start mounting it.
So, const wrapper is equal to mount MockedProvider.
Inside of that, we'll have our CreateItem,
and that our MockProvider also needs
the mocks passed to it.
Then we go ahead and simulate someone
filling out the form,
and for these we can just go ahead and grab
the title price description that we previously did.
So go ahead and grab those three,
and I'll fill it out here.
Except that the value is going to not be hardcoated,
it's going to be item.title,
item.price,
and item.description.
Next we need to mock the router,
because what happens when you create an item
is that it routs to the page of that.
So we need to mock it.
We'll grab the next router and the router,
and we'll set that to be an object with just the push.
It's gonna be a jest function.
We don't care about prefetch, because there is no prefetch
on the specific component,
so we are just mocking the jest function.
Then we're going to find the form and simulate a submit.
Then we will wait, await, wait, let's wait 50 mil seconds
this time, because we are going to be checking
that the router was pushed, and changes the page.
Because why?
When somebody submits the form, what happens is it goes
to the back end, creates the item, comes back
with that new item, which is part of our CreateItem here,
and then we're gonna check
that the page has successfully been routed.
So we'll expect the router.router.push,
which is a mock, to have been called.
Let's see if that works.
Well, one little error here.
No more mock responses for the mutation.
Create_Item_Mutation, where you pass a title,
a description, a price, an image and a large image.
Mokes, mocks.
One more error, still.
No more mock responses,
type, name, make sure you don't put a capital N on there,
but I have a lower case.
Alright, I just paused it and took a good look at this
and I figured out why.
So, it says no more mock responses for this.
You're being, it's being called with the title,
the description, an image, a large image, and a price.
However, when we are calling it, we are calling it
with no image and no large image.
However, when it's being called, it's being called with
dog.jpg and large-dog.
I'm like where are these coming from?
But silly me, we put some default state in here
to just check everything and I forgot to take it out
when I was actually running the application.
So if you set those back,
to just in their empty state
our test should pass.
It's obviously telling us that some of our
snapshots need to be updated,
which is true because we changed the defaults,
so go ahead and update those.
Everything's passing, let's jump back into our test here.
So, we expect the router.router.push to have been called
and that looks like it's passing.
We got little error here,
typename item is not being passed.
Missing field ID. Oh, in here.
Just, ID of abc123.
Good.
Now we can actually go down here
and expect it to have been called with,
let's just put an empty object
to see what it actually was called with.
It actually got called
with a pathname, item, query, ID, abc123.
So we wanna check that this successfully routed
to the pathname/item in the query pass along abc123.
So that is a successful test. Looking good.
Alright, that was a bit of a big one,
so go grab a coffee and we'll keep going
with these mutations once we have a little bit
of a more in-depth one coming up in the next video.